# s42774-021-00077-8

## Page 1

Advances in AerodynamicsWangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s42774-021-00077-8
RESEARCH OpenAccess
Predictingrunningtimeofaerodynamic
jobsinHPCsystembycombiningsupervised
andunsupervisedlearningmethod
HaoWang1,Yi-QinDai 1,JieYu 2 andYongDong 1*
*Correspondence:
yongdong@nudt.edu.cn
1CollegeofComputerScienceand
Technology,NationalUniversityof
DefenseTechnology,Changsha,
China
Fulllistofauthorinformationis
availableattheendofthearticle
Abstract
Improvingresourceutilizationisanimportantgoalofhigh-performancecomputing
systemsofsupercomputingcenters.Tomeetthisgoal,thejobschedulerof
high-performancecomputingsystemsoftenusesbackfillingschedulingtofill
short-timejobsintojobgapsatthefrontofthequeue.Backfillingschedulingneedsto
obtaintherunningtimeofthejob.Inthepast,thejobrunningtimeisusuallygivenby
usersandoftenfarexceededtheactualrunningtimeofthejob,whichleadsto
inaccuratebackfillingandawasteofcomputingresources.Inparticular,whenthe
predictedjobrunningtimeislowerthantheactualtime,thedamagecausedtothe
utilizationofthesystem’scomputingresourcesbecomesmoreserious.Therefore,the
predictionaccuracyofthejobrunningtimeiscrucialtotheutilizationofsystem
resources.Theuseofmachinelearningmethodscanmakemoreaccuratepredictions
ofthejobrunningtime.Aimingattheparallelapplicationofaerodynamics,we
proposeajobrunningtimepredictionframeworkSUcombiningsupervisedand
unsupervisedlearningandverifyitontherealhistoricaldataofthehigh-performance
computingsystemsofChinaAerodynamicsResearchandDevelopmentCenter
(CARDC).TheexperimentalresultsshowthatSUhasahighpredictionaccuracy
(80.46%)andalowunderestimationrate(24.85%).
Keywords: High-performancecomputing,Jobscheduling,Jobrunningtime
prediction,Machinelearning,Predictionaccuracy,Underestimationrate
1 Introduction
High-performance computing [1] has been widely used in the fields of science and engi-
neering. The explosive growth of scientific computing demand [2] provides a suitable
growth environment for the rapid development of high-performance computing. At the
same time, it also puts forward higher requirements for high-performance computing
systems. High-performance computing has the characteristics of powerful computing
capability and high scalability. Ensuring or even improving the preset service level
agreement(SLA)[ 3]andcomputingresourcesmorerationallyarealsocriticalissues.
©TheAuthor(s). 2021 OpenAccess ThisarticleislicensedunderaCreativeCommonsAttribution4.0InternationalLicense,
whichpermitsuse,sharing,adaptation,distributionandreproductioninanymediumorformat,aslongasyougiveappropriate
credittotheoriginalauthor(s)andthesource,providealinktotheCreativeCommonslicence,andindicateifchangeswere
made. Theimagesorotherthirdpartymaterialinthisarticleareincludedinthearticle’sCreativeCommonslicence,unless
indicatedotherwiseinacreditlinetothematerial. Ifmaterialisnotincludedinthearticle’sCreativeCommonslicenceandyour
intendeduseisnotpermittedbystatutoryregulationorexceedsthepermitteduse,youwillneedtoobtainpermissiondirectly
fromthecopyrightholder. Toviewacopyofthislicence,visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

## Page 2

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page2of18
On high-performance computing systems, the job scheduler is a crucial part. It is
responsible for scheduling the jobs submitted by users according to a certain strategy. To
improve the utilization of computing resources, the job scheduler usually adopts a back-
fillingstrategy,whichschedulesshort-timejobsatthebackofthejobqueueinadvanceif
these jobs don’t delay the execution of the first job in the queue. Usually, in this process,
the job scheduler captures the following job information: the submission time of the job
(Submit_time),thenumberofCPUcoresrequiredforthejobtocomplete(CPU_req),the
job name (Job_name), the user name (User), the user ID (User_id), the job waiting time
(Wait_time) and estimated time for the job (Time_req), etc. Job backfilling scheduling
depends on the estimated time of the job. In the past, the estimation of the job’s running
time was provided by users, but Cirne et al. [4] showed that the estimated time given by
usersofmorethanhalfofthejobisfivetimesormorethantheactualrunningtimeofthe
job. This behaviour is in line with the user’s desire to complete the job normally because
arunningjobwillbekilledifthetimeallocatedtoithasbeenexhausted.Moreover,many
usersmaynotknowaboutthejobandtheoperatingenvironmentandtendtogivethejob
arunningtimethatexceedstypicalrequirements.Butforthesystem,thisapproachisnot
beneficialandcancausealotofwasteofcomputingresources.
Using machine learning methods to predict the running time of the job can effectively
improve the inaccuracy of the time provided by users. Wu [5]e ta l .p r o p o s e dt h eI R P A
algorithm, which significantly improved the accuracy of the running time prediction of
a single job. Pumma [6] et al. proposed a meta-heuristic prediction algorithm based on
a dynamic environment, which also achieved good results. Xiao [7]e ta l .p r o p o s e dt h e
GA-Sim algorithm based on clustering, which improved the prediction accuracy and
underestimationofoperatingtime.
Aerodynamics applications are typical applications in high-performance computing,
mainly used to study the force analysis and possible physical and chemical changes when
aircraftsandotherequipmentmovesrelativetoairorothergases.Withtherapiddevelop-
mentofmorethanhalfacentury,thissubjecthasbecomeincreasinglymatureandserves
many fields such as aviation, aerospace, shipbuilding, and water conservancy. Aiming at
theparallelapplicationsofaerodynamics,predictingtheirrunningtimeisofgreatsignif-
icance for improving the throughput of the aerodynamic HPC system and improving the
efficiencyofthesystem.
For the parallel application of aerodynamics, we comprehensively consider its comput-
ingcharacteristicsandproposeajobrunningtimepredictionframeworkSU(Supervised
and Unsupervised learning method) combining supervised learning and unsupervised
learning. In SU, supervised learning refers to a machine learning method with regres-
sionasthetargetvalue.WetriedthreesupervisedlearningmethodsinSU.Unsupervised
learning refers to clustering, which is a machine learning method without a target value.
SU is implemented in two steps. In the first step, the jobs in the history log are clustered
to obtain multiple clusters of similar jobsS
′
1, S
′
2, ... . Then, for the job to be predicted,
find its k nearest neighbour jobs in its cluster (Suppose it isS
′
1), and get a set of similar
jobsS
′′
1.Thesecondstepadoptsasupervisedlearningmethodtopredicttherunningtime
of the job. The results of verification on the real historical data of the high-performance
computingsystemsofCARDCshowthatthepredictionaccuracyreaches80.46%,andthe
underestimationrateis24.85%.

## Page 3

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page3of18
Themaincontributionsofthispaperincludethefollowingthreeaspects:
• Firstly,weproposetheSU,ajobtimepredictionframework,whichcombinesthe
advantagesofsupervised learningmethodsandunsupervised learningmethodsand
laysafoundationforthejobrunningtimeprediction;
• Secondly,weintegratethreemachinelearningregressionmodels(linearregression,
randomforestregression,andsupportvectorregression)intotheSUframeworkto
realizethepredictionofjobrunningtime;
• Thirdly,basedontherealhistoricaldataofthehigh-performancecomputingsystems
ofCARDC,theabovealgorithmisverifiedandtested.Theresultsshowthatwhenthe
SUframeworkadoptstheSVRmethod,ithasgoodaccuracy andunderestimation.
The main structure of this paper is as follows: Section2 introduces the scheduling and
backfillingalgorithmsandseveralalgorithmsforpredictingthejobrunningtimeandana-
lyzestheircharacteristics.Section 3describesthejobrunningtimepredictionframework
SUproposedinthispaperindetail.InSection 4,weruntheSUframeworkontheproduc-
tion log provided by CARDC for verification. Finally, we summarize our work and future
challenges.
2 Relatedwork
SchedulingalgorithmsusuallyincludeFCFS(first-come-first-served),SJF(shortjobfirst),
LJF (long job first), and WFP [8]. The common practice is to use FCFS to schedule jobs.
As the name suggests, this strategy sorts the scheduling order of jobs according to their
arrivalorder.FCFSissimple,fair,andeasytoimplement,butwhenidleresourcescannot
meet the needs of jobs at the top of the queue, resources are wasted. In addition, short
jobsmayneed to waituntil longjobsare completed,resulting in alongeraveragewaiting
time,sothismethodmakesresourceutilizationverylow.
The SJF scheduling algorithm sorts the jobs in the increasing order of the estimated
running time and then delivers them to the system for scheduling. This scheduling algo-
rithmisbeneficialtothesituationwheretherearemanyshortjobsbecausealargenumber
of short jobs in the queue can be scheduled in advance. In extreme cases, long jobs in
the queue may need to wait forever. On the contrary, for the LJF scheduling algorithm,
its advantages and disadvantages are exactly the opposite of those of SJF’s. For the WFP
scheduling algorithm, it schedules the jobs in descending order of the score after scoring
thejobsaccordingtoacertainformula1:
Score = CPU_req ∗(Wait_time/Time_req)3 (1)
The WFP scheduling algorithm comprehensively considers the demand for computing
resources of the job and the waiting time of the job in the job queue. As the waiting time
forjobsincreases,thejobbecomesmorethirsty,andthescoregrows,whichmeansitmay
be executed in advance at some point. This is an exciting improvement. The previous
schedulingalgorithmdoesnotconsidertheproblemofjobthirst.
In the scheduling system, in addition to the job scheduling algorithm, there is usually
backfilling of jobs. That is, some small jobs at the back of the job queue are executed
in advance according to a certain algorithm without affecting the execution of the jobs
at the front of the queue. Backfilling can further utilize idle computing resource frag-
ments, thereby improving resource utilization. There are mainly conservative backfilling

## Page 4

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page4of18
and EASY backfilling [8]. For conservative backfilling, as long as the small backfilled job
does not delay the previous jobs in the waiting queue, the backfilling will be executed.
Compared to conservative backfilling, the EASY method is more radical. As long as the
scheduled small job does not delay the first job in the queue, it will be scheduled. The
two types of backfilling have their own merits. In the former, there is no job thirst. In
the latter, jobs may experience unbounded delays. Usually, in HPC, similar jobs will be
calledrepeatedly,soyoucanchooseasuitablebackfillingmethodbasedontheactualjob
schedulingsituation.
Considering the importance of the accuracy of the estimated job running time in
the HPC systems, more and more work is devoted to improving the accuracy of the
job running time and reducing the underestimation rate. The main effect of reduc-
ing the underestimation rate is to reduce the severe waste of resources caused by the
underestimationofthesystem.
In the study of job running time prediction, Tsafrir et al. [9]f i r s tp r o p o s e dt h eL a s t - 2
method. This method is straightforward. It takes the average of the actual running time
of the last two submitted jobs by the same user as the predicted time of the newly job
submitted by this user. However, the accuracy and underestimation rate of this method
cannotmeetexpectations.
Wu [5] et al. proposed an integrated learning model IRPA based on specific types of
jobs (VASP). The model is shown in Fig.1. This model combines a variety of machine
learning methods and takes into account some unique characteristics of the VASP. This
model firstly uses three sub-models, including Random Forest Regression, Support Vec-
torRegression,andBayesianRidgeRegression,topredictthejobtime,respectively.Then,
the three predicted values obtained are used as the input of the random forest classifi-
cation model. Finally, the prediction result is determined by these four machine learning
methods.TheIRPAmodelhasachievedhighaccuracyforVASP,butitdoesnotconsider
theunderestimationofthepredictingtime.
Pumma et al. [6] proposed a meta-heuristic optimization algorithm with classification
and linear regression technology based on a dynamic environment to predict job run-
ning time. The method is mainly divided into three steps: firstly, when the job arrives,
it uses MICA to extract some job features related to running time and uses perf to cre-
ate a workload profile (including branch prediction, multi-instruction, etc.). Then, the
result obtained in the first step is fed back to the decision tree to classify the job. In the
Fig.1 IRPA

## Page 5

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page5of18
experiment, there are seven classes in total. Finally, the regression model of the corre-
sponding category is used to predict the operating time. In the last step, the author uses
theABCalgorithm(artificialbeecolonyalgorithm)tofindtherelationshipbetweeninput
attributesandrunningtime,whichisameta-heuristicalgorithm.Themodelhasachieved
good results, but there are some limitations to this method. First, the job is divided into
sevencategories,butoncethenewlyarrivedjobdoesnotbelongtooneofthecategories,
the method will fail. Second, it is a method based on a dynamic environment and needs
to consider whether the user and the system can accept the time spent in the predicting
process.
In [10], Fan Y et al. mainly started from the point of view of data processing, hop-
ing to optimize and filter data to improve job running time prediction accuracy. A lot
of work before this has been devoted to improving the prediction accuracy by reducing
theoverestimationofrunningtimebutdidnotsolvetheproblemofunderestimation.As
weknow,underestimatingtimemeansdisastrousconsequences.Unfortunately,thesetwo
goalsconflict,andimprovingthepredictionaccuracyofoverestimatedjobsmayincrease
the probability of underestimation. Fan Y et al. proposed an online adjustment frame-
work, TRIP, starting from data. TRIP uses the data truncation capability of the Tobit
model. In TRIP, data that does not meet the conditions is truncated so that more effec-
tive data brings more accurate running time predictions. The TRIP model is shown in
Fig. 2. For each incoming job, TRIP first searches the library for historical information
with the same user, project, and job. Then, if the number of information found is less
than the threshold, the time provided by the user will be used. Otherwise, it compares
whether the average accuracy of historical jobs is greater than a certain threshold. If it is,
thetimepredictionprovidedbytheuserwillbeused.Otherwise,theTobitmodelwillbe
usedforprediction.Experimentalresultsprovethatthismethodsignificantlyreducesthe
underestimationrate,buttheaverageaccuracydoesnotchangemuch.
In[11],GuoJetal.considereddatacategoriesandbelievedthatconsideringtheoverall
performance index is unfair for the data with a small number. Therefore, an evaluation
standardforafewtypesofdataisproposed.Intheexperiment,GuoJetal.usedXGBoost
and RF machine learning methods to classify and predict data and then proposed evalu-
ation criteria for a small number of data. At the same time, it was also found that when
the jobs were classified by application name, higher recall rates, precision rates, and F1
Fig.2 TRIP

## Page 6

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page6of18
scoreswereobtained.However,thismethodfailswhentheuserisnotrequiredtoprovide
anestimatedtimeforthejob.
Itcanbefoundthatwhenusingmachinelearningmethodstopredicttherunningtime
of a job, many aspects need to be taken into account at the same time. In response to
the problems in related work, we designed the SU framework, taking into account the
prediction accuracy and underestimation issues. At the same time, the generalization
performanceofthealgorithmisbetter.
3 SUpredictingframework
The SU framework is implemented based on a combination of supervised learning and
unsupervised learning. Supervised learning methods mainly include classification and
regression. Our numerical prediction of job time is a regression method. To obtain high-
precision prediction results, we must first extract effective data and features, which is
difficulttoachievebysupervisedlearningalone.Therefore,wecombineclustering,atypi-
calunsupervisedlearningmethod,clustersimilarthingstogetherbycalculatingsimilarity
and then provide effective data dependence for supervised learning. As shown in Fig.3,
SUismainlycomposedofclustering,k-nearestneighbours,andprediction.
• Through clusteringofunsupervised learning,similarjobsinthehistorylog are
clusteredtogether,andmultiplesimilarjobssets S
′
1,S
′
2,...areobtained.Hereweuse
theshortesteditdistancealgorithmonUserandJob_nametocalculatethedistance
matrixanduse thisasthestandardofclusteringtoobtainthesetofsimilarjobs S
′
.
• Accordingtothejobtobepredicted,SUselectsitsknearestneighborjobsinthe
correspondingset S
′
toformasimilarjobset S
′′
,andusesitasatrainingset.
• SUusessupervisedlearningtoestimatetherunningtimeofthejob.Itshouldbenoted
thatwhenanewuser appears,thatis,thejobtobepredicteddoesnotbelongtoany
previouscluster.Thenwelookforitskneighborjobsinthehistorylogandpredict
runningtimewiththesejobs.The jobfeaturesusedinSUareshowninTable 1.
Fig.3 SUPredictingframework

## Page 7

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page7of18
Table1 Jobfeatures
Features Meanings
Elapsed Theactualrunningtimeofthejob
CPU_req ThenumberofCPUcoresrequired
Submit_time Jobsubmissiontime
Job_name Jobname
User Username
3.1 TheshortesteditdistancematrixLD
The shortest edit distance algorithm is the first step to realize the SU framework. As
s h o w ni nF i g.3, we calculate the LD matrix for clustering. It is the basis needed to com-
plete the clustering, and it can better measure the distance between strings. Here we use
the Levenshtein distance [12] to define the edit distance, which can be used to indicate
how many steps string A needs to undergo to transform into string B. There are three
editingoperations:add,deleteandreplace.Totransformastringintoanother,threeoper-
ationsaregenerallyusedincombination.Whatwewanttogetistheshortesteditdistance
fromstringAtostringB,whichdescribesthedegreeofsimilaritybetweenthetwostrings.
The shorter the edit distance between two strings, the higher the similarity between
them.
We use dynamic programming to measure the shortest edit distance between two
strings. In SU, we combine User and Job_name to form a new string User_job. We select
two samples from this new feature. Since the samples are very long, they are cut into the
string‘son’and‘sun’.Theprocessofsolvingtheshortesteditdistanceisasfollows:
InitializethematrixofstringAandB(showninTable 2).
Calculatethevalueofposition(1,1)(showninTable 3):atthistime’s’=’s’,sothevalueof
(1,1) is min1+1,1+1,0+0=0, that is, the left number of the position (1,1) plus 1, the upper
numberplus1,andtheupperleftnumberplus0,thentaketheminimumvalue.Itshould
be noted that when the compared two characters are not the same, the numbers in the
threepositionsareallincreasedby1.
Repeat the rule from the upper left corner to the lower right corner to calculate the
valueoftheremainingpositionsuntilthematrixisfilled(showninTable 4).
Finally, the value 1 in the lower right corner is obtained, which is the shortest edit dis-
tance between string A and string B. This is consistent with the phenomenon that only
needstoreplaceanintermediatecharactertocompletethetransformation.
Werefer to theabovedynamicprogramming methodto calculatethe shortesteditdis-
tance between each sample and obtain an n*n LD distance matrix. Here, n is the number
ofjobs,andLDisasymmetricmatrixwhosemaindiagonalisall0.Inactualcalculations,
onlytheupper-halfangleorthelowerhalf-angleneedstobecalculated.SuchamatrixLD
isthesampleinputwhenthejobisclustered.
Table2 Initialization
son
0123
s1
u2
n3

## Page 8

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page8of18
Table3 Calculationforthefirststep
son
0123
s10
u2
n3
3.2 Usingk-means++clusteringtoobtainsimilarjobsets
′
After obtaining the LD matrix, we use the matrix to clustering. Cluster analysis is a
method of unsupervised learning, which aims to discover the relationship between them
in the data, and group these data. The greater the similarity of data within a cluster and
the smaller the similarity of data between clusters, the better the clustering effect. This
is not the same as classification. Clustering gathers similar data together and gives each
clusterofdataalabel.Itdoesnotcareaboutthislabelwhendividing,andeventhenumber
of labels is uncertain. The classification is when the number of labels has been deter-
mined,anditishopedthataclassifierwillbeusedtoclassifythedataintosuitablelabels.
This is a method of supervised learning. Data clustering mainly includes Partition-based
Methods, Density-based methods, and Hierarchical Methods. Here we use the classic
Partition-basedclusteringmethods,k-means++[ 13].
k-means++ is evolved based on k-means [14]. The principle of the k-means algorithm
is relatively simple, and the convergence speed is fast. Its time complexity is close to lin-
ear, so in the case of a relatively large sample size in the SU framework, the efficiency
is relatively high. But the k-means algorithm also has certain defects. First, the number
of clusters k needs to be given in advance, which requires certain prior knowledge. The
second is that in k-means, it is necessary to set a clustering center to perform the initial
division at the beginningand then optimizethe division, so the choice of the initialfocus
willhaveagreaterimpactontheclusteringresults,whichmaycausedamagetotheeffect
ofclustering.
The random allocation of initial centroids in k-means will lead to the problem that the
final result may only be a local optimal value. In the SU framework, the k-means++ algo-
rithmisusedtoclusterthesamplepoints.Itsbasicideaisthattheinitialclusteringcenters
should be sufficiently far apart, and usually, multiple clustering is performed each time a
differentcenterisinitialized,andthesmallestinertialclusteringresultisusedasthefinal
clusteringresult.Thecalculationformulaofinertialisasfollows:
inertial =
k∑
i=1
∑
(x∈Ei)
||x − ui||2
2,( 2 )
Amongthem, ui isthecenterofeachcluster,andxrepresentsthesamplepoint.Inertialis
a measure of the degree of aggregation within a cluster. The smaller the value, the higher
thesimilarityofsamplesinthecluster.
Table4 Theendresult
son
0123
s1012
u2112
n3221

## Page 9

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page9of18
I nt h eS Uf r a m e w o r k ,w ec a l c u l a t et h eL Dm a t r i xo nt h ed a t ao b t a i n e df r o mC A R D C
and then use k-means++ for clustering to obtain similar job sets. Considering that the
amount of data is relatively large and each cluster in the final clustering result belongs
to the same user, the sample points of each user are clustered separately, which greatly
reducestheclusteringtime.Whenclustering,theintervalofkcanbespecifiedaccording
to certain prior knowledge, and the best k value can be calculated. Usually, we use SSE
(Sum of Squared Errors) and Calinski-Harabasz index to measure the pros and cons of
the k value. SSE is the within-cluster sum of squared errors, which can be calculated by
Equation 2. The smaller the value is, the better the k is. Calinski-Harabasz considers the
density of clusters and the degree of dispersion between clusters. Its calculation process
is also very simple. The larger the score of Calinski-Harabasz is, the better the k is. The
formulaisasfollows:
Cscore =[tr(Bk)/tr(Wk)] ∗[ (n − k)/(k − 1)], (3)
Amongthem,nisthenumberofsamples,kisthenumberofclusters, Bk isthecovariance
matrixbetweenclustersamples, Wk isthecovariancematrixofthesamplesinthecluster,
and tr() is the trace of the matrix. A high Calinski-Harabasz score means that the covari-
ance of the samples in the cluster is small, and the covariance of the samples between
clustersislarge.Bothofthemindicatethattheclusteringeffectiswell.
Figures 4 and 5 are the clustering results of a sample of a certain user. The defini-
tion of SSE measures the similarity of the samples in the cluster. The lower the value,
the higher the sample similarity. The k value when the elbow appears in the figure is
generally a good choice. For Calinski-Harabasz, it measures the cluster density and dis-
persion between clusters of the sample. Generally, the value of k corresponding to the
high Calinski-Harabasz value is selected and the SSE corresponding to this k usually has
Fig.4 SSEchangeswiththevalueof k

## Page 10

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page10of18
Fig.5 Calinski-Harabaszchangeswiththevalueof k
anelbowshape.ItcanbeseenfromthefigurethatSSEhasanelbowshapewhenk=4and
Calinski-Harabasz takes the maximum value at this time. Therefore, for this user’s sam-
ple, when k=4, the clustering effect is the best. In the realization of SU, we finally group
thesamplesinto15clustersaccordingtotheshortesteditdistancematrixLD.
3.3 Usingk-nearestneighborstoobtainsimilarjobset S
′′
Afterk-means++isusedtoobtainthesetofsimilarjobs S
′
,theideaofk-nearestneighbor
isusedtoobtaintheknearestneighborsofthejobtobepredicted.Weselecttwonumer-
ical attributesof the jobsto calculate the similarity betweenthem. Thetwo attributesare
the number of CPU cores required by the job CPU_req and the time the user submits
the job Submit_time. Among them, CPU_req is directly related to the job running time.
The use of Submit_time is to hope that the machine learning method can learn some
of the users’ submission habits. For example, the user may like to submit some larger
jobs at night and submit smaller jobs during the day. Of course, the Submit_time feature
needstobeprocessed.Firstly,itneedstobemodulatedfromsecondstohours.Secondly,
considering that it is a cyclic variable and its size is relatively meaningless, it should be
coded.
For the coding of cyclic characteristics, the angle in the polar coordinate system is
used to describe each value of cyclic characteristics. At the same time, the angle can be
uniquelydeterminedbyusingthesinfunctionandcosfunction.ThenwegetSubmit_sin
andSubmit_cos.Finally,afterstandardizingCPU_req,Submit_sin,andSubmit_cos,they
aredenotedas(c,ss,sc). ci,ssi,sci arethecpu,sinvalueofSubmitandcosvalueofSubmit
of job i respectively,cj, ssj, scj are the cpu, sin value of Submit and cos value of Submit of
jobjrespectively,andformula4isusedtocalculatethesimilarity Sscore betweenjobiand

## Page 11

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page11of18
jobj.
Sscore =
√
(|ci − cj|2 +|ssi − ssj|2 +|sci − scj|2,( 4 )
After calculating the job similarity, select k jobs with the smallestSscore value. In this
way, after the two steps of clustering and k-nearest neighbors, the job similarity setS
′′
of
the job to be predicted is formed.
3.4 Usingsupervisedlearningtopredictjobtime
After obtaining a similar job setS
′′
,w eu s ek jobs that contain CPU_req, Submit_sin,
Submit_cos,andtheactualjobrunningtimeElapsedtotrainthepredictionmodelofthe
job to be predicted. Among them, the first three features are used as model inputs, and
Elapsedisusedasmodeloutput.Inourexperiment,wetrieddifferentregressionmethods
inSU’sjobtimepredictionperiodandchosethebestmethodasthepredictionmodel.
In the final prediction time expression, an adjustment factorαis introduced, and the
value is determined by the best experimental effect. It can greatly reduce the underesti-
mation rate of the prediction under the condition of losing a little prediction accuracy.
We know that the prediction accuracy describes how close the predicted job time is to
the actual running time, and the underestimation rate refers to the proportion of the job
whose predicted time is lower than the actual time. When the prediction time interval
is multiplied by a coefficient greater than 1, the entire value interval will be larger. How-
ever,relativetothelossofpredictionaccuracy,theunderestimationratehasbeenreduced
more, indicating that a considerable part of the prediction results is located below the
actualrunningtimebutveryclosetoit.Thus,forthenewjobjob_new,Predictrepresents
thepredictingprocess,thefinalresultFinalcanbeexpressedas:
Final = α ∗Predict(job_new) (5)
4 Experiment
In the experiment, we implemented the SU framework and used real logs obtained from
CARDC to compare the effects of the three machine learning methods of linear regres-
sion,randomforestregression,andSVRwithSUframeworkandwithoutSUframework.
Experiments have shown that when the SVR method is used in the prediction period of
theSUframework,ithasthebestpredictionaccuracyandunderestimaterate.
4.1 Experimentalplatformanddataset
Severalmachinelearningmethodsusedintheexperimentandthestandardizationofdata
processingareallprovidedbythescikit-learnlibrary[ 15].
The data required for the experiment is provided by CARDC and contains a total of
30,481originalsamplesgeneratedinthreemonths.
Before using SU to make predictions, we preprocessed the data. Firstly, we remove the
unsuccessful jobs. That is, the job did not finish within the specified time, and then we
removethejobsmissingthefeaturesshowninTable 1,leaving26,208validjobs.
4.2 Modelevaluationcriteria
In this article, three evaluation indicators are used, namely Average Predictive Accuracy
(APA),MeanAbsoluteError(MAE),andUnderestimateRate(UR).

## Page 12

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page12of18
APA describes the average prediction accuracy of all jobs to be predicted, that is, how
close the overall prediction is to the actual job time. The calculation formula for a single
jobt obepr edict edisasf ollows:
APAi =
{
Prei/Elapsedi, Prei < Elapsedi
Elapsedi/Prei, Prei ≥ Elapsedi
(6)
Amongthem, Prei representsthepredictedjobrunningtimeofjobi,and Elapsedi rep-
resents the actual running time of the job. In this way, the average prediction accuracy
AP Aofalljobscanbee x pr essedas:
APA = (
n∑
i=1
APAi)/n (7)
Among them, n is the total number of jobs to be predicted, and the value of APA is
between0and1.Thecloserto1,thebetterthepredictioneffect.
MAE describes the difference between the predicted time of all jobs and their true
values,anditsexpressionis:
MAE = (
n∑
i=1
|Prei − Elapsedi|)/n (8)
MAEandAPAarecomplementarytoeachother.
UR describes the proportion of jobs that are predicted to be lower than the actual job
time.Suchapredictionismeaninglessandhasgreaterdamagetotheutilizationofsystem
computing resources. It should be reduced as much as possible. The calculation formula
isasfollows:
UR = (
n∑
i=1
I(Prei < Elapsedi))/n (9)
WhereIisanindicatorfunction,definedasfollows:
I(Prei < Elapsedi) =
{
1, Prei < Elapsedi
0, Prei ≥ Elapsedi
(10)
4.3 Experimentalsteps
• Filterthedataaccordingtotherequirementsofthedataprocessingperiod.
• Aftercalculatingtheshortesteditdistancematrix,clusterthesamples.
• Dividethejobs,getthetrainingsetandthetestset,andgetitsneighborjobset
accordingtothejobinthetestset.
• Predictthejobtobepredicted.
• Evaluatetheresultsoftheexperiment.
4.4 Experimentalresultsandanalysis
In the job time prediction period, we compared the effects of three machine learn-
ing methods: linear regression, random forest regression, and SVR with SU framework
and without SU framework. When the SU framework is not used, we do not perform
clustering and k-nearest neighbor operations on samples. After extracting CPU_req,
Submit_time, and Elapsed, we perform cycling encoding on Submit_time. Then we stan-
dardize CPU_req, Submit_sin, and Submit_cos, and finally, we predict the running time
ofthejob.

## Page 13

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page13of18
Table5 Predictingresultsofsixmethods
Method Linear RFR SVR Single-
Liner
Single-
RFR
Single-
SVR
MAE 3140.5 3181.9 2762.7 15039.3 10892.6 9488.0
APA 0.7482 0.7469 0.8046 0.2784 0.3769 0.5400
UR 0.3134 0.3022 0.2485 0.2871 0.2731 0.489
The values of the mean absolute error MAE, average prediction accuracy APA, and
underestimation rate UR obtained in the experiment are shown in Table5.T h eM e t h o d
column represents the machine learning method used in the prediction period, and the
three on the left are linear regression, random forest regression, and support vector
regression with SU framework, and the three on the right are linear regression, random
forestregression,andsupportvectorregressionwithoutSUframework.
Figure 6 shows the comparison of the mean absolute error under six different condi-
tions. When the SU framework is used, the average MAE obtained by the three machine
learning methods is 3028, which is 74% lower than the average without the SU frame-
work. This indicates that when the SU framework is used, the predicted value has higher
stability, and the MAE value is the lowest when using the SVR prediction method with
the SU framework.
Figure 7 shows the comparison of prediction accuracy under six different conditions.
WhentheSUframeworkisused,theaverageAPAobtainedbythethreemachinelearning
methods is 76.66%, which is 36.8% higher than when the SU framework is not used. This
means that when the SU framework is used, the prediction has higher accuracy, and the
APAvalueisthehighestwhenusingtheSVRpredictionmethodwiththeSUframework.
Fig.6 MAEcomparison

## Page 14

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page14of18
Fig.7 APAcomparison
Figure 8 shows the comparison of the underestimation rate under six different con-
ditions. The underestimation of the first five methods is relatively close, but the SVR
methodwithSUframeworkstillobtainsthelowestunderestimationrate.
Fig.8 URcomparison

## Page 15

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page15of18
Fig.9 Cumulativeerrordistribution
TheSVRalgorithmhasthecharacteristicsofgoodgeneralizationperformanceandfast
convergence speed. On the three indicators, SVR with framework has the best perfor-
mance. This shows that the combination of the SU framework and SVR not only reduces
underestimationbutalsoensurestheaccuracyoftheprediction.
Based on the previous work, we analyzed the cumulative distribution of the error of
predictingthejobrunningtimewiththeframework,asshowninFig. 9.
Theleftandrightsidesoftheverticallinex=0representtheunderestimationandover-
estimation of the job running time prediction. It can be seen that on the left side of x=0,
RFR and Linear are relatively close, but the underestimation of SVR is much better. At
the same time, when approaching the vertical line of x=0, the change of SVR is more sig-
nificant, indicating that many underestimations are close to the actual job running time.
Therefore, it is necessary to adjust the final prediction results withα.C o m p a r e dw i t h
the loss of prediction accuracy, the reduction of underestimation is more obvious. On
the right side of x=0, SVR is also closer to the real job running time than the other two
algorithms.
Furthermore, we analyze the prediction results when using the SVR method under the
SU framework according to the job classifications. The prediction results of 15 job clas-
sifications are shown in Fig.10, the number of jobs and the distribution of times are
shown in Table6. For I, K, and L, these three classifications of jobs have the best com-
prehensiveperformanceonthethreeevaluationcriteria.Amongthem,takingjobLasan
example, its CPU requirements are 24, 64, and 96 respectively. At this time, the corre-
sponding maximum-to-minimum ratios of real job running time are 1.40, 1.01, and 1.37
respectively. The poor overall performance of job B has a CPU demand of 16, and the
maximum-to-minimum ratio of the real job running time is 12.7. It can be found that in
the case of a fixed job classification and a fixed CPU demand, the fluctuation of the real
jobtimehasagreatinfluenceonthepredictionresult.Thesmallerthefluctuationrange,

## Page 16

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page16of18
Fig.10 Resultswithjobclassifications
the higher the prediction accuracy and the smaller the underestimation. The larger the
fluctuation range, the lower the accuracy and the higher the underestimation. The same
patterncanbefoundintheremainingclassificationsofhomework.
Finally, we performed simulated backfilling scheduling experiments on the above six
prediction results on the Slurm simulator [16] to verify its scheduling performance.
The Slurm simulator supports EASY backfilling and FCFS scheduling algorithms. We

## Page 17

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page17of18
Table6 Backfillingperformance
Method Linear RFR SVR Single-
Liner
Single-
RFR
Single-
SVR
AWT 213.8 204.6 192.6 297.4 285.1 274.6
use Average Waiting Time (AWT) to evaluate scheduling performance under these two
strategies. The AWT under the six methods are shown in Table6, from left to right are
linear regression, random forest regression, and support vector regression under the SU
framework and linear regression, random forest regression, and support vector regres-
sion under the non-SU framework. It can be found that the AWT of the three methods
whentheSUframeworkisusedis29%lowerthanthatofthethreemethodswhentheSU
frameworkisnotused.Amongthem,whentheSVRpredictionmethodisusedunderthe
SUframework,theschedulingperformanceisthebest.
In summary, the SU framework can guarantee higher prediction accuracy and lower
underestimation rate without requiring users to provide estimated job running time. In
the high-performance computing systems of China Aerodynamics Research and Devel-
opmentCenter,mostoftheoperationsareCFD-related,andtherearerelativelyfewusers.
Atthesametime,applicationsarerelativelyconcentrated.Inthisscenario,itisalsomore
conducivetotheplayoftheSUframework.
5C o n c l u s i o n
Although the SU framework has achieved good results in the real history log of aerody-
namics, the author believes that SU has room for improvement in prediction accuracy,
averageabsoluteerror,andunderestimation.Somekeyjobparametersareintheconfigu-
ration file, such as the number of grids. The number of grids represents the division unit
for force analysis. If the number ofgrids is large, more calculations are required, soit has
a close relationship with the job running time, but this type of data was not obtained in
this experiment. When the job classification and CPU demand are fixed, there is a close
relationship between the real job running time fluctuations and these parameters. So in
order to improve the prediction effect, it is hoped that this type of character data can be
captured in the future, which is believed to bring better prediction results and further
enhancetheutilizationofcomputingresources.
Acknowledgements
WangHaowouldliketothankMr.DongYongandMr.YuJiefortheirsupportandhelpintopicselection,datacollection,
experimentaldesign,andthecompletionofthepaper.ThisworkwascarriedoutattheComputingCenterofCARDC.
Authors’contributions
YDandJYputforwardalgorithmideasandprovideguidanceandanexperimentalenvironment.HWwasresponsiblefor
improvingtheSUframework,conductingexperiments,andcompletingthefirstdraft.YDandYQDwereresponsiblefor
revisingandfinalizingthedraft.Theauthorsreadandapprovedthefinalmanuscript.
Funding
ThispaperissupportedbytheNationalNumericalWindtunnelproject,projectnumber2018-ZT6B13.
Availabilityofdataandmaterials
ThedatasupportingtheresultsofthisstudycanbeobtainedfromtheComputingCenterofCARDC,buttheavailability
ofthesedataislimited,andthesedatahavebeenusedwithpermission.
Declarations
Competinginterests
Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenocompetinginterests.

## Page 18

Wangetal. AdvancesinAerodynamics (2021) 3:22 Page18of18
Authordetails
1CollegeofComputerScienceandTechnology,NationalUniversityofDefenseTechnology,Changsha,China. 2China
AerodynamicsResearchandDevelopmentCenter,Mianyang,China.
Received:12April2021 Accepted:10May2021
References
1. WangR,LuK,ChenJ,ZhangW,LiJ,YuanY,LuP,HuangL,LiS,FanX(2021)BriefintroductionofTianheexascale
prototypesystem.TsinghuaSciTechnol26:361–269. https://doi.org/10.26599/TST.2020.9010009
2. LiaoX(2014)Milkyway-2:backtotheworldTop1.FrontiersComputSci8(3):343–344. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11704-014-4901-0
3. LeffA,RayfieldJT,DiasDM(2003)Service-levelagreementsandcommercialgrids.IEEEInternetComput7(4):44–50.
https://doi.org/10.1109/MIC.2003.1215659
4. CirneW,BermanF(2001)Acomprehensivemodelofthesupercomputerworkload.In:IEEEInternationalWorkshop
onWorkloadCharacterization. https://doi.org/10.1109/wwc.2001.990753
5. WuGB,ShenY,ZhangWS,LiaoSS,WangQQ,LiJ(2019)Runtimepredictionofjobsforbackfillingoptimization.J
ChinComputSyst40(1):6–12
6. PummaS,FengW,PhunchongharnP,ChapelandS,AchalakulT(2017)AruntimeestimationframeworkforALICE.
FutureGenerComputSyst72:65–77. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.02.040
7. XiaoYH,XuLF,XiongM(2019)Ga-sim:Ajobrunningtimepredictionalgorithmbasedoncategorizationand
instancelearning.ComputEngSci6:987–992
8. WeilAM,FeitelsonDG(2001)Utilization,predictability,workloads,anduserruntimeestimatesinschedulingtheIBM
SP2withbackfilling.IEEETransParallelDistribSyst12(6):529–543. https://doi.org/10.1109/71.932708
9. TsafrirD,EtsionY,FeitelsonDG(2007)Backfillingusingsystem-generatedpredictionsratherthanuserruntime
estimates.IEEETransParallelDistribSyst18(6):789–803
10. FanY,RichP,AllcockWE,PapkaME,LanZ(2017)Trade-offbetweenpredictionaccuracyandunderestimationrate
injobruntimeestimates.In:2017IEEEInternationalConferenceonClusterComputing(CLUSTER). https://doi.org/
10.1109/cluster.2017.11
11. GuoJ,NomuraA,BartonR,etal.(2018)MachinelearningpredictionsforunderstimationofjobruntimeonHPC
system.In:YokotaR,WuW(eds).SupercomputingFrontiers.SCFA2018.Springer,Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-69953-0_11
12. LevenshteinVI(1966)Binarycodescapableofcorrectingdeletions,insertionsandreversals.SovietPhysDoklady
10(8):707–710
13. KanjanawattanaS(2011)Anextendedk-means++withmixedattributesforoutlierdetection.Masterthesis,Asian
InstituteofTechnology
14. FahimAM,SalemAM,TorkeyFA,RamadanMA(2006)Anefficientenhancedk-meansclusteringalgorithm.J
ZhejiangUnivSciA7(10):1626–1633. https://doi.org/10.1631/jzus.2006.a1626
15. Scikit-learnlibrary[EB/OL](2018-12-11). https://www.scikit-learn.org
16. SimakovNA,InnusM,JonesM,DeleonRL,WhiteJP,GalloSM,PatraAK,FurlaniTR(2017)Aslurmsimulator:
Implementationandparametricanalysis.In:InternationalWorkshoponPerformanceModeling. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-319-72971-8_10
Publisher’sNote
SpringerNatureremainsneutralwithregardtojurisdictionalclaimsinpublishedmapsandinstitutionalaffiliations.
